documentation/docs/requirements/features-and-requirements.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Features and Requirements

## Functional Requirements
#### Journal
- Users should be able to create, delete, and edit journal entries.
- Users' journals should be saved to local storage.
- Users should be able to log in to save their journal onto the server.
- Users should be able to access their journal across different devices by signing in.
#### Customization Options
- Users will be able to configure when they want to be notified to journal.
#### Authentication
- Users will be authenticated when logging in to the system.

## Non-functional Requirements
#### User Experience
- Users should be able to navigate the UI with minimal button presses.
- Users should recieve clear feedback for all actions such as loading indicatiors and confirmation messages.
- Users should experience a consistent and intuituve interface across all devices.
- Users should be able to access help, and should be provided with guidance.
  
#### Data Storage
- Data backups will be run periodically to prevent loss of users' data.
- Users should have their data stored securely and encrypted.
- Users should have their data isolated from other users to ensure privacy and security.
- Users should be able to request deletion of their data.

#### Performance
- Users should experience navigations and page loads within seconds.
- Users should experience smooth video playback with minimal buffering.
- API requests should return responses within seconds.
- Application should have efficient handling of data synchronization.
- System should be able to process content in real time without data loss.

#### Maintainability
- Application should use Git for version control using clear commit messages and branching.
- Codebase should be modular, allowing developers to update components with minimal impact on other parts of the application.
- Codebase should follow consistent style guidelines.
- Application should have tests covering all critical features.
- Application should have comprehensive documentation for setup, deployment, and feature usage.

#### Scalability
- Backend should be designed to accomodate increased user load.
- Application should support future integration with additional services

#### Security
- User data in transit should be encrypted.
- Passwords should be stored using hashing.

Commit message:

Update requirements and architecture for video feed
Added a new architecture diagram and updated documentation to reflect the shift from a journaling-focused app to a short-form video feed model for mental health education. Expanded functional requirements to include video feed, resource hub, and user interaction features. Updated system overview and component descriptions to include Mux for video streaming and revised data storage details.

documentation/docs/requirements/features-and-requirements.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Features and Requirements

## Functional Requirements

#### Video Feed
- Users should be able to view a vertically scrolling feed of short-form videos focused on mental health topics.
- The system shall display one video at a time, occupying the full screen for an immersive experience.
- Video playback should start automatically when a video comes into view and pause when it is scrolled out of view.
- The feed will feature a variety of content, including educational clips, guided exercises, and personal stories.

#### Resource Hub
- Users should have access to a dedicated section for mental health resources.
- The hub should provide articles, guides, and information on different therapy modalities (e.g., CBT, DBT, Mindfulness).
- Resources should be organized into categories for easy navigation (e.g., Anxiety, Depression, Stress).
- Users should be able to view resource content within the application.

#### User Interaction
- Users should be able to "like" videos to show appreciation and influence future content recommendations.
- Users should be able to leave comments on videos to engage in discussion with the community.
- Users should be able to view comments left by other users.

#### Authentication
- Users should be able to create an account using an email and password.
- The system will authenticate users when they log in to access personalized features.
- Logged-in users will have their interactions (likes, comments) associated with their account.

## Non-functional Requirements
#### User Experience
- Users should be able to navigate the UI with minimal button presses.
- Users should recieve clear feedback for all actions such as loading indicatiors and confirmation messages.
- Users should experience a consistent and intuituve interface across all devices.
- Users should be able to access help, and should be provided with guidance.
  
#### Data Storage
- Data backups will be run periodically to prevent loss of users' data.
- Users should have their data stored securely and encrypted.
- Users should have their data isolated from other users to ensure privacy and security.
- Users should be able to request deletion of their data.

#### Performance
- Users should experience navigations and page loads within seconds.
- Users should experience smooth video playback with minimal buffering.
- API requests should return responses within seconds.
- Application should have efficient handling of data synchronization.
- System should be able to process content in real time without data loss.

#### Maintainability
- Application should use Git for version control using clear commit messages and branching.
- Codebase should be modular, allowing developers to update components with minimal impact on other parts of the application.
- Codebase should follow consistent style guidelines.
- Application should have tests covering all critical features.
- Application should have comprehensive documentation for setup, deployment, and feature usage.

#### Scalability
- Backend should be designed to accomodate increased user load.
- Application should support future integration with additional services

#### Security
- User data in transit should be encrypted.
- Passwords should be stored using hashing.
