documentation/docs/requirements/system-block-diagram.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# System Block Diagram

![alt text](image.png)

This diagram illustrates the architecture of the system, showing how different components interact with each other. It includes the following key elements:

- **Frontend**: Built with React, TypeScript, Vite, and react-query. Handles the user interface and communicates with the backend for data fetching and authentication.
- **Backend**: Node.js API written in TypeScript. Manages authentication logic, business rules, and serves as the main point of integration for other services.
- **Database**: PostgreSQL stores user data, journal entries, and preferences securely.
- **Integrations**: Includes Email/Notification services, Analytics/Monitoring, and 3rd Party APIs for extended features and event tracking.
- **Deployment**: Separate deployment pipelines for backend and frontend, managed with environment variables and configuration secrets.

Each component is connected as shown in the diagram, ensuring secure, scalable, and maintainable system architecture.

Commit message:

Update system diagram and acceptance testing docs
Replaced the system block diagram image reference and updated the diagram description to include video streaming. Removed the acceptance test table from the acceptance-testing documentation was causing problems. Deleted the obsolete image.png file.

documentation/docs/requirements/system-block-diagram.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# System Block Diagram

![alt text](architecture-diagram.png)

This diagram illustrates the architecture of the system, showing how different components interact with each other. It includes the following key elements:

- **Frontend**: Built with React, TypeScript, Vite, and react-query. Handles the user interface and communicates with the backend for data fetching and authentication.
- **Backend**: Node.js API written in TypeScript. Manages authentication logic, business rules, and serves as the main point of integration for other services.
- **Database**: PostgreSQL stores user data, journal entries, and preferences securely.
- **Video Stream**: Utilizes Mux for secure video streaming and playback, providing a robust video player experience within the application.
- **Integrations**: Includes Email/Notification services, Analytics/Monitoring, and 3rd Party APIs for extended features and event tracking.
- **Deployment**: Separate deployment pipelines for backend and frontend, managed with environment variables and configuration secrets.

Each component is connected as shown in the diagram, ensuring secure, scalable, and maintainable system architecture.
